README.md, before:

# Paper <-> Telegram bridge plugin

A fork from [spigot-tg-bridge](https://github.com/kraftwerk28/spigot-tg-bridge) with some new features.

Download from [hangar](https://hangar.papermc.io/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge), [modrinth](http://modrinth.com/plugin/paper-telegram-bridge) or from [releases page](https://github.com/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge/releases).

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1a6f61c0-9563-49c6-8cf6-7658fbd4c005)

### This plugin will send chat messages from Minecraft to Telegram, and from Telegram to Minecraft.

## How to use:

1. Download .jar file from [releases page](https://github.com/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge/releases), and put it in
   `plugins/` directory on your server **OR** clone this repo and run `gradle` inside repo's directory.

2. If you already have telegram bot, skip this step. Otherwise, create it through [BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather).
   You'll go through step-by-step instructions, give a bot **username** and most importantly, obtain a bot **token**.
   Save this token for future use. **Note:** in order to make your bot hear raw text messages (not commands), you must
   disable [privacy mode](https://core.telegram.org/bots#privacy-mode) option which is on by default. Go through bot's
   settings: **Bot Settings -> Group Privacy** and click **Turn Off**.

3. Next, you need to tell plugin about your new bot. You can either:

   - Run Paper server, plugin will log `"No config file found! Saving default one."`. After that, stop server and
     proceed to 4th step.
   - Copy [config.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge/master/src/main/resources/config.yml)
     to `plugins/PaperTelegramBridge/` in your server directory.

4. A `config.yml` is just a [valid YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file, alternative for JSON, but more
   human-readable.
   Now, take bot's **token** which you got in 2nd step and paste them into `config.yml`, so it looks like this:

   ```yaml
   botToken: abcdefghijklmnopq123123123
   # other configuration values...
   ```

5. Run Paper server.

6. Add you bot to chats, where you plan to use it. In each of them, run `/chat_id` command. The bot should respond and
   give special value - **chat id**. Now, open `config.yml` and paste this ID under `chats` section, so it will look
   like this:

   ```yaml
   botToken: abcdefghijklmnopq123123123
   chats: [
       -123456789,
       987654321,
       # other chat id's...
     ]
   ```

7. You can extend `config.yml` with more tweaks, which are described in the table below, but it's not necessary, plugin
   will use default values instead, if they're missing. Also, check out the [example](src/main/resources/config.yml).

8. Re-run server or type `tgbridge_reload` into server's console.

## Plugin configuration:

|         Field          | Description                                                                                      |          Type          |      Required      |         Default          |
| :--------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------------: |
|         enable         | If plugin should be enabled                                                                      |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|        botToken        | Telegram bot token ([How to create bot](https://core.telegram.org/bots#3-how-do-i-create-a-bot)) |        `string`        | :heavy_check_mark: |            -             |
|         chats          | Chats, where bot will work (to prevent using bot by unknown chats)                               | `number[] or string[]` | :heavy_check_mark: |           `[]`           |
|   serverStartMessage   | What will be sent to chats when server starts                                                    |        `string`        |        :x:         |   `'Server started.'`    |
|   serverStopMessage    | What will be sent to chats when server stops                                                     |        `string`        |        :x:         |   `'Server stopped.'`    |
|      logJoinLeave      | If true, plugin will send corresponding messages to chats, when player joins or leaves server    |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|     logFromMCtoTG      | If true, plugin will send messages from players on server, to Telegram chats                     |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|     logFromTGtoMC      | If true, plugin will send messages from chats, to Minecraft server                               |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|     logPlayerDeath     | If true, plugin will send message to Telegram if player died                                     |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |         `false`          |
|    logPlayerAsleep     | If true, plugin will send message to Telegram if player fell asleep                              |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |         `false`          |
|  logPlayerAdvancement  | If true, plugin will send message to Telegram if player gets an advancement                      |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|      logInventory      | If true, plugin will send image of inventory, item or ender chest [Read more](#Inventory)        |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|        strings         | Dictionary of tokens - strings for plugin i18n                                                   | `Map<string, string>`  |        :x:         |    See default config    |
|        commands        | Dictionary of command text used in Telegram bot                                                  | `Map<string, string>`  | :heavy_check_mark: |        See below         |
| telegramMessageFormat  | Format string for TGtoMC chat message                                                            |        `string`        |        :x:         |    See default config    |
| minecraftMessageFormat | Format string for MCtoTG chat message                                                            |        `string`        |        :x:         |    See default config    |
|     silentMessages     | Disable notification in Telegram chats                                                           |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          false           |
|       apiOrigin        | Use different API endpoint for the bot                                                           |        `string`        |        :x:         | https://api.telegram.org |
|   disableConfigWatch   | Do not watch the config for changes                                                              |        `string`        |        :x:         |          false           |

## Telegram bot commands:

Commands are customizable through config. If command doesn't exist in config, it will be disabled

|  Command   | Description                                                           |
| :--------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `/online`  | Get players, currently online                                         |
|  `/time`   | Get [time](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Day-night_cycle) on server |
| `/chat_id` | Get current chat ID (in which command was run) for config.yml         |

## Format string:

```
+--------+ >--minecraftMessageFormat(message)-> +--------------+
| Paper |                                      | Telegram bot |
+--------+ <--telegramMessageFormat(message)--< +--------------+
```

Applies to `telegramMessageFormat` and `minecraftMessageFormat` configurations.
Must contain `%username%` and `%message%` inside.
You can customize message color with it (coloring works only for `telegramMessageFormat`). You can customize
bold/italics/strikethrough formatting (works only for `minecraftMessageFormat`).
See [Minecraft message color codes](https://www.digminecraft.com/lists/color_list_pc.php)
and [Telegram message formatting](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#html-style) for more information.
This feature is related to [this issue](https://github.com/kraftwerk28/spigot-tg-bridge/issues/6)

## Plugin commands:

|      Command      | Description                                                                                |
| :---------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tgbridge_reload` | Reload plugin configuration w/o need to stop the server. Works only through server console |

## Permissions

|         Permission          | Description                                                                                                                           |
| :-------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `tg-bridge.silentjoinleave` | When set to **true** the bot won't send join and leave messages for that player. It will also be hidden from the **/online** command. |

## Inventory

Similar behavior as InteractiveChat plugin (not a dependency!).
Commands implemented:

- [inv]
- [item]
- [ender]

## Minecraft assets

In this repository won't include the minecraft icons required to build the plugin for the inventory and advancements rendering features.
This icons can be generated using the mod [IconExporter](https://github.com/CyclopsMC/IconExporter) and running in-game this command:

```
/iconexporter export 64
```

Some icons, like potions, require renaming. The resulting .png files need to be placed `src/main/resources/textures`.

Commit message:

feat: add whitelist management commands and configuration

README.md, after:

# Paper <-> Telegram bridge plugin

A fork from [spigot-tg-bridge](https://github.com/kraftwerk28/spigot-tg-bridge) with some new features.

Download from [hangar](https://hangar.papermc.io/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge), [modrinth](http://modrinth.com/plugin/paper-telegram-bridge) or from [releases page](https://github.com/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge/releases).

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1a6f61c0-9563-49c6-8cf6-7658fbd4c005)

### This plugin will send chat messages from Minecraft to Telegram, and from Telegram to Minecraft.

## How to use:

1. Download .jar file from [releases page](https://github.com/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge/releases), and put it in
   `plugins/` directory on your server **OR** clone this repo and run `gradle` inside repo's directory.

2. If you already have telegram bot, skip this step. Otherwise, create it through [BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather).
   You'll go through step-by-step instructions, give a bot **username** and most importantly, obtain a bot **token**.
   Save this token for future use. **Note:** in order to make your bot hear raw text messages (not commands), you must
   disable [privacy mode](https://core.telegram.org/bots#privacy-mode) option which is on by default. Go through bot's
   settings: **Bot Settings -> Group Privacy** and click **Turn Off**.

3. Next, you need to tell plugin about your new bot. You can either:

   - Run Paper server, plugin will log `"No config file found! Saving default one."`. After that, stop server and
     proceed to 4th step.
   - Copy [config.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pbl0/paper-telegram-bridge/master/src/main/resources/config.yml)
     to `plugins/PaperTelegramBridge/` in your server directory.

4. A `config.yml` is just a [valid YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) file, alternative for JSON, but more
   human-readable.
   Now, take bot's **token** which you got in 2nd step and paste them into `config.yml`, so it looks like this:

   ```yaml
   botToken: abcdefghijklmnopq123123123
   # other configuration values...
   ```

5. Run Paper server.

6. Add you bot to chats, where you plan to use it. In each of them, run `/chat_id` command. The bot should respond and
   give special value - **chat id**. Now, open `config.yml` and paste this ID under `chats` section, so it will look
   like this:

   ```yaml
   botToken: abcdefghijklmnopq123123123
   chats: [
       -123456789,
       987654321,
       # other chat id's...
     ]
   ```

7. (Optional) To enable admin commands like `/whitelist`, you need to add Telegram user IDs to the `admins` list in `config.yml`.

   ```yaml
   admins: [
       123456789,
       987654321,
       # other admin user ids...
     ]
   ```

8. You can extend `config.yml` with more tweaks, which are described in the table below, but it's not necessary, plugin
   will use default values instead, if they're missing. Also, check out the [example](src/main/resources/config.yml).

9. Re-run server or type `tgbridge_reload` into server's console.

## Plugin configuration:

|         Field          | Description                                                                                      |          Type          |      Required      |         Default          |
| :--------------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------: | :----------------: | :----------------------: |
|         enable         | If plugin should be enabled                                                                      |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|        botToken        | Telegram bot token ([How to create bot](https://core.telegram.org/bots#3-how-do-i-create-a-bot)) |        `string`        | :heavy_check_mark: |            -             |
|         chats          | Chats, where bot will work (to prevent using bot by unknown chats)                               | `number[] or string[]` | :heavy_check_mark: |           `[]`           |
|         admins         | List of Telegram user IDs authorized to use admin commands like `/whitelist`                     | `number[] or string[]` |        :x:         |           `[]`           |
|   serverStartMessage   | What will be sent to chats when server starts                                                    |        `string`        |        :x:         |   `'Server started.'`    |
|   serverStopMessage    | What will be sent to chats when server stops                                                     |        `string`        |        :x:         |   `'Server stopped.'`    |
|      logJoinLeave      | If true, plugin will send corresponding messages to chats, when player joins or leaves server    |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|     logFromMCtoTG      | If true, plugin will send messages from players on server, to Telegram chats                     |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|     logFromTGtoMC      | If true, plugin will send messages from chats, to Minecraft server                               |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|     logPlayerDeath     | If true, plugin will send message to Telegram if player died                                     |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |         `false`          |
|    logPlayerAsleep     | If true, plugin will send message to Telegram if player fell asleep                              |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |         `false`          |
|  logPlayerAdvancement  | If true, plugin will send message to Telegram if player gets an advancement                      |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|      logInventory      | If true, plugin will send image of inventory, item or ender chest [Read more](#Inventory)        |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|    logWhitelistKick    | If true, plugin will send notification when a player is kicked due to not being whitelisted      |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          `true`          |
|        strings         | Dictionary of tokens - strings for plugin i18n                                                   | `Map<string, string>`  |        :x:         |    See default config    |
|        commands        | Dictionary of command text used in Telegram bot                                                  | `Map<string, string>`  | :heavy_check_mark: |        See below         |
| telegramMessageFormat  | Format string for TGtoMC chat message                                                            |        `string`        |        :x:         |    See default config    |
| minecraftMessageFormat | Format string for MCtoTG chat message                                                            |        `string`        |        :x:         |    See default config    |
|     silentMessages     | Disable notification in Telegram chats                                                           |       `boolean`        |        :x:         |          false           |
|       apiOrigin        | Use different API endpoint for the bot                                                           |        `string`        |        :x:         | https://api.telegram.org |
|   disableConfigWatch   | Do not watch the config for changes                                                              |        `string`        |        :x:         |          false           |

## Telegram bot commands:

Commands are customizable through config. If command doesn't exist in config, it will be disabled

|   Command    | Description                                                                            |
| :----------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|  `/online`   | Get players, currently online                                                          |
|   `/time`    | Get [time](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Day-night_cycle) on server                  |
|  `/chat_id`  | Get current chat ID (in which command was run) for config.yml                          |
| `/whitelist` | (Admin only) Manage server whitelist - list whitelisted players or add/remove a player |

## Format string:

```
+--------+ >--minecraftMessageFormat(message)-> +--------------+
| Paper |                                      | Telegram bot |
+--------+ <--telegramMessageFormat(message)--< +--------------+
```

Applies to `telegramMessageFormat` and `minecraftMessageFormat` configurations.
Must contain `%username%` and `%message%` inside.
You can customize message color with it (coloring works only for `telegramMessageFormat`). You can customize
bold/italics/strikethrough formatting (works only for `minecraftMessageFormat`).
See [Minecraft message color codes](https://www.digminecraft.com/lists/color_list_pc.php)
and [Telegram message formatting](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#html-style) for more information.
This feature is related to [this issue](https://github.com/kraftwerk28/spigot-tg-bridge/issues/6)

## Plugin commands:

|      Command      | Description                                                                                |
| :---------------: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tgbridge_reload` | Reload plugin configuration w/o need to stop the server. Works only through server console |

## Permissions

|         Permission          | Description                                                                                                                           |
| :-------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `tg-bridge.silentjoinleave` | When set to **true** the bot won't send join and leave messages for that player. It will also be hidden from the **/online** command. |

## Inventory

Similar behavior as InteractiveChat plugin (not a dependency!).
Commands implemented:

- [inv]
- [item]
- [ender]

## Whitelist Management

Server admins can manage the whitelist directly from Telegram using the `/whitelist` command:

- `/whitelist` - List all whitelisted players
- `/whitelist <player_name>` - Toggle whitelist status for a player (add if not whitelisted, remove if already whitelisted)

This command is only available to users listed in the `admins` configuration field. The plugin will also send notifications when players try to join but are kicked due to not being whitelisted (configurable via `logWhitelistKick`).

## Minecraft assets

In this repository won't include the minecraft icons required to build the plugin for the inventory and advancements rendering features.
This icons can be generated using the mod [IconExporter](https://github.com/CyclopsMC/IconExporter) and running in-game this command:

```
/iconexporter export 64
```

Some icons, like potions, require renaming. The resulting .png files need to be placed `src/main/resources/textures`.
